---
layout: default
title: Curriculum Vitae - full
---

Curriculum Vitae

**Andrew Lynch**

**** Overview

A consultant with a broad range of skills in middleware and system
administration, Andrew has participated in a number of complex projects
as a key provider of technical services and advice.  These projects have
encompassed a variety of platforms, with a focus on Java-based
integration work, including trading platforms and payment systems.



Personal Information


Address: 117 More Close\
 West Kensington

W14 9BW

United Kingdom



Tel: +44 75 9589 5184

Email: ak.lynch@gmail.com

Web Site: http://uk.linkedin.com/in/andrewlynch

Nationality: New Zealander 

Work Eligibility: Tier 1 (General) 



Skills & Competencies


Software Development

Experience in design and implementation of enterprise applications in
the financial and government sectors, most recently focussing on the use
of SOA architectures and web service implementation in the funds
management and payment processing industries. Vitae 


Configuration Management

Over five years experience in build automation and software delivery. 
Responsible for handover of systems to operational teams, and
configuration of infrastructure to support development teams, including
management of build artefacts, defect tracking, and source control
systems.

Operational Support

A strong background in systems administration has been expanded to
include post delivery support of completed projects, and a deep
understanding of ongoing operational requirements.  Excellent
understanding of the performance of Java and SQL code within the context
of larger systems, and a broad range of experience in fault diagnosis
and resolution.  

       
Key Technical Skills

**Enterprise Java**- Advanced (9 years)**\
**Broad expertise in the construction of Java EE and more recently SOA
applications using enterprise Java technology.  Experienced with
deployment to all major Java EE environments, particularly Oracle
Weblogic, Sun (Glassfish, SeeBeyond), and IBM WebSphere, focussed on
high-volume data processing, using a mix of messaging, web services, and
batch processing; with particular strength in service deployment and
performance improvement.  \
 Supporting technologies most heavily used include Oracle SQL, JPA, SCA,
JMS and web services  

**Unix**- Advanced (10 Years)

Past experience administering Solaris services in a production
environment, and ongoing use of Solaris and more recently Linux as
deployment platforms for Java applications.  

**Oracle / PL/SQL**(4 Years)

Currently working with Oracle 11g, using a mix of JPA and PL/SQL. 

**JIRA** - Advanced (\> 5 years)\
 Implemented Jira and related products (including Confluence, and
FishEye) for a number of clients; including the development of business
process to effectively use the tools within medium-large organisations

\

**Maven** - Expert (3 years)\
 Introduced Maven as a previous build tool for a previous client, and
implemented best practices using Sonatype Nexus and Subversion.  
Developed a number of custom plugins used heavily in release management
at VocaLink.   


Work History


**UBS ** July 2010 – present


**Senior Developer, Trading Systems** – Market order management, Cash
Equities July 2010 – present

Front office developer, part of group responsible for technical
implementation of business requests, market mandatory changes and
technical enhancements to the brokerage's market order management
system.   Develop and maintain system components to provide reliable,
low-latency, and GC-free operation for this and the UBS MTF.  Working
with trading desks, and external, internal client groups to design
solutions to met their requirements & interoperate with a range of
legacy and newly developed systems.  

Technologies used: Core Java, FIX protocol & Exchange-specific
technologies, Multicast networking, Linux, MS SQL Server, Proprietary
frameworks


**RHE Group UK** March 2009 – June 2010


**Developer** – VocaLink March 2009 – June 2010

Involved in the development of an outsourced processing platform for
BGC, the Swedish interbank payment processor, within an SOA environment
using SCA (Service Component Architecture), Oracle and web services to
interface with the client's front-end systems.  This was the first
outsourcing contract of its kind, and was subject to extremely high
quality and performance standards.

I initially developed a number of web services for the processing of
automatic payments, and later became responsible for software build
services across the project.   In this role I worked with in-house
configuration and middleware teams to improve configuration management
processes, and also worked closely with the operational support teams to
integrate each new component into the live environment.

Technologies used: SCA, Oracle Weblogic, Oracle 11g, JPA, Web Services,
Solaris, WebSphere MQ


**RHE Associates NZ Ltd** November 2004- February 2009

**Developer** – **VocaLink** August 2008 – February 2009 August 2008 -
February 2009

See above


**Systems Integrator, Configuration Manager**– **AMP Financial
Services** August 2007 - July 2008


The Portfolio Investment Earnings (“PIE”) Project was aimed at ensuring
AMP Financial Services' products are compliant with the recent New
Zealand legislative changes for the tax treatment of investment funds.
This project also provided the business capability required for AMP to
participate in the launch ofa new workplace superannuation scheme
introduced by the New Zealand government in 2007. AMP's involvement in
the superannuation scheme was as one of five government-preferred
default investment providers.

 

The components developed by the project team communicate with both new
and legacy systems within a new SOA environment.  The system enables the
calculation and audit of each investor’s tax liability under the new tax
regime, using both Spring and Java CAPS (formerly SeeBeyond) within
AMP's SOA-based enterprise architecture.

 

As part of this project, I was responsible for release assembly and
handover to the client, and provided build services and technical
support to the development, test, and operational teams to ensure timely
product delivery.

 

Technologies used: Java CAPS & Enterprise Java (Java EE), Spring, JMS,
Hibernate, Maven, Nexus, DB2, VMware, Windows Server 2003.

**Middleware Specialist**– **New Zealand Tertiary Education
Commission ** June 2005 - June 2007



Responsible for the maintenance and improvement of the TEC's software
development environment and build processes. This included development
of build scripts, deployment of releases to test environments, and
management of the underlying operating systems and network
infrastructure. Andrew also assisted the development and operational
teams with application tuning and troubleshooting as needed to ensure
system availability.

 

Technologies used: Solaris, Red Hat Linux, Java EE, JBoss, LDAP, XML.
Databases: Oracle, Sybase ASE

 

**Performance Specialist – Ferrit** June 2006 - October 2006



Ferrit was an online retail marketplace developed for Telecom New
Zealand. This project required extensive customisation of a third-party
marketplace product used overseas. Andrew tuned the underlying database
to provide the query performance required bythe customer. Andrew also
assisted in the configuration of a Sun Cluster service to support the
site's availability requirements. 

Technologies used: Sybase ASE, Solaris, Sun Cluster 3.0, SeeBeyond ICAN



**SolNet Solutions Limited** December 2003- October 2004



**Systems Integrator, Configuration Manager**– **New Zealand
Qualifications Authority**

Andrew developed the reporting frameworks and data extracts for
management of the 2003 and 2004 secondary school National Certificate of
Educational Achievement ("NCEA") software applications. The NCEA
qualifications are the primary measure of secondary school achievement
at various levels and were introduced across New Zealand in 2003. 

Also responsible for build & configuration management for the
development team.

Technologies used: Sybase ASE & EA Server, Struts, Actuate FormulaOne,
Jasper Reports



**SolNet Limited** **June** 2000- November 2003

**Systems Integrator, Configuration Manager**– **New Zealand
Qualifications Authority **

See above

**Developer - Inland Revenue Department**– **e-File Internet Enablement
Project**

 Involved in the design and delivery of the Inland Revenue's new
Internet gateway for electronic filing of employer tax returns directly
to the Revenue, replacing an existing X.25 system.  Responsibilities
included service interface design, SDK preparation, and implementation
support for third-party development teams accessing the service.

**Systems Administrator**

Prior to this, Andrew provided Solaris and J2EE system administration
services to a number of clients, in SolNet's capacity at the time as the
exclusive sales agent for Sun Microsystems in New Zealand.   

Technologies used: Solaris, J2EE, JBoss, Web Services, LDAP, Apache 



**Unisys NZ**May 1999 – May 2000 (approx.)

**UNIX Systems Administrator**

Provided second level technical support for the Inland Revenue
Department, on Sun Solaris 2.5.1 and 2.6



**Shell Todd Oil Services **Summer (November-February) 1997/98, 1998/99

**Student Intern**



**Education**

****

**Massey University, Palmerston North, New Zealand**February 1996-
November 1998

**Bachelor of Computer Science** 


**Visa Information**


**United Kingdom** - Tier 1 (General) Migrant

Valid to January 2014


**Personal Interests**


Currently exploring concurrent systems & mobile application
development.  Other interests include rowing (Auriol Kensington) and
cycling (2 finishes in the Taupo Cycle Challenge)

 
